# FCSBenchmarks

## What can be found here

Benchmarks that exercise performance of `FSharp.Compiler.Service`

## Testing performance of FSharp.Compiler.Service 
Performance of the compiler service is crucial for having good developer experience.
This includes compilation, type checking and any other parts of the API used by IDEs.

When making changes to the FCS source code, consider running some of these to assess impact of the changes on performance.

## Benchmark list
* [BenchmarkComparison/](BenchmarkComparison/) - a Notebook-based benchmark that analyses performance of `FSharpChecker.ParseAndCheckFileInProject` on a single-file F# project. Supports comparing different revisions of the FCS codebase and fetching the code automatically.
* [CompilerServiceBenchmarks/](CompilerServiceBenchmarks/) - a few different micro-benchmarks of FCS 
* [FCSSourceFiles/](FCSSourceFiles/) - analyses performance of `FSharpChecker.ParseAndCheckFileInProject` for the `FSharp.Core` project. Uses locally available source code.

All the above benchmarks use BenchmarkDotNet.

## Quickly validating that the benchmarks work
[SmokeTestAllBenchmarks.ps1](SmokeTestAllBenchmarks.ps1) allows to run all the above benchmarks in this directory with a minimum number of iterations, as a way to verify that the benchmarks still work.

This doesn't validate the notebook-based meta-benchmarks.

## FCS benchmark generator
The below two projects allow creating benchmarks for arbitrary codebases in an automated fashion:
* `Benchmarks.Generator` - generates high-level FCS benchmarks given human-readable description of codebase and analysis actions to be performed
* `Benchmarks.Runner` - runs benchmarks generated by `Benchmarks.Generator`
For more details see [Benchmarks.Generator/README.md](Benchmarks.Generator/README.md)
## Other

You can find this document under 'tests/benchmarks/FCSBenchmarks/README.md'.